---
title: "Basketball Shooting Assistant"
date: 2020-10-04
permalink: /portfolio/BSA
tags: [machine learning, python, basketball]
excerpt: "Computes the optimal shooting motion parameters\nOpen on [GitHub](https://github.com/andreibogdanflorea/Basketball-Shot-Assistant)"
header:
  overlay_image: "/assets/images/BSA/first_page.jpg"
  teaser: "assets/images/BSA/teaser.jpg"
  overlay_filter: 0.5
mathjax: "true"
---


# Introduction

This project represents my very first attempt of trying to incorporate Data
Science concepts and a Machine Learning algorithm into a useful application.

The ideas behind this project stem from my hobby and passion of playing basketball.
In addition, apart from the game itself, I love the analytical side of it and one
of my favourite NBA teams is the Dallas Mavericks, as they base a lot of their
play on analytics.

# Acquiring the data

An intriguing part of the project was acquiring the necessary data.

This was accomplished along with my colleague and friend, Eduard Scăueru. We filmed
eachother while shooting Free Throws and measured two shooting motion parameters (body-arm
angle and elbow angle) for each of our ~100 shots.

# Creating the application

The entire code for the application was developed by me in Python.

While working on this project, I familiarized myself with classifiers and managed to
build my first GUI in Python, all while consolidating my knowledge of plots, colormaps
and even computational geometry (though the use of a Convex Hull).

# Final notes

At the moment, the project is by no means finished. I will continue to work on it
and try to add support for multiple shooting motion parameters.

What about a [link](https://github.com/andreibogdanflorea/Basketball-Shot-Assistant)
